             			LINUX BASIC COMMANDS

1) ll
	List the names of the files in the current directory  along with the permissions, date, time and size

                                                                                                                                                            
2) df -h
 	 It is  used to show the amount of disk space that is free on file systems

3) ls
	It is used to list files or directories


4) whoami

            It is used to identify the current logged in user
		
	

5) pwd
 	prints the complete path of the current working directory

		

6) date
	It is used to display the system date and time
		

7) cal
    	It is used to see the calendar of a specific month or a whole year
			

8) mkdir 
           creamory in the system, as well as the buffers and caches  and available.
te directories



9) touch
            create a new file


10) cat
	It reads data from the file and gives their content as output.

11) wc
	It allows you to count the number of lines, words, bytes, and characters.

		
12) mv
            It is used to move files or directories.


13) cp
            It is used to copy files or directories.

					
14) chmod
           It is used to change the access permissions of file system

		
15) head
 	The head command prints the first 10 lines of file

16) tail
 	The tail command prints the first 10 lines of file


17) what is
	it is used to offer a one-line overview of command
	

18) fdisk -l
	It is used to list the partition on hard drive 

		
19) free -m
 	Displays the total amount of free and used physical and swap me 

		
20) stat
	It gives information about the file and filesystem.


21) history
	
	It is used to view the previously executed command.	

	
22)sed commands
		sed-> stream editor. It is commonly used for find and replace.

	a) sed 's/findword/replaceword/g' sample.txt
		The changes are displayed only in the console. It doesnot change the original content of the file.

		
	b) sed 's/findword/replaceword/g' > sample.txt


	c) sed 's/findword/replaceword/g' >> sample.txt


23)cat newfile.txt | tee newfile2.txt
	Tee command reads the standard input and writes it to both the standard output and one or more files.

24) mkdir -p  /sample/sample1/sample2/sample3/
 		It is used to create hierarchy directories.

25) mkdir -pv sample/sample1/sample2/sample3

	It is shows the process of creation hierarchy directories
26)cat newfile.txt | tee -a newfile2.txt
	
	It will append the data

27)tree foldername
	It used to recursively list or display the content of a directory in a tree-like format.

	Incase It shows error like command not found. Need to install tree


30)du foldername
	It displays the directory end to one.

31) ls -R foldername
	It displays the directory one to end


32) cat -n filename
	It shows the number of lines in the specific file.
	
33) cat file1.txt > file2.txt
		It is used to copy the file without using cp,tee and sed command

35) sort -n file.txt
	It is used to sort the file (numbers(ascending order) words(alphabetical order))

36) adduser jio

	To create user.

37) cut -d: -f1 /etc/passwd
	It is used to display the list of user.
		
38) passwd username
	It is used to create a password for specific user.
	
39) usermod -L username
	It is used to lock the specific user.

40) usermod -U username

		It is used to unlock the specific user.
41) id

	It used to find out user and group names and numeric ID's (UID or group ID) of the current user or any other user in the server.

42) file filename
	It is used to determine the type of file.


43) userdel username
                   Delete the user

44) Find

	The find command is used to search and locate the list of files and directories based on conditions you specify for files that match the arguments

	a)find -type f
		It is used to display all the files.		
	
	b)find -type d
		It is used to display all the directories.

	c)find ./ -type f | wc -l
			It shows the count of file type
		
	d)find /root -type f | wc -l
		It shows the count of file types which is present under root path.
		
	e)find /root -type d | wc -l
		It shows the count of directories which are present under root path

	f) find ./ -type d | wc -l
		It shows the count of directories
		
	g)find / -type d -empty | wc -l
		It is used to dsiplay the word count of empty directory
		
	h)find /root -type d -empty | wc -l
		It is used to display the word count of empty directories which are present under root path.
		
	j)find /root/sample -type f -empty | wc -l
		It is used to display the word count of empty files type which are present under specific path.

			
45)compress(tar ,gz,bz2)

	a)tar -cvf directoryname.tar directory
		
	b)gzip -v  sample.tar
		
	c)gunzip -v sample.tar.gz
		
	d)bzip2 -v sample.tar
		
	e)bunzip2 -v sample.tar.bz2
		
	f)tar -tvf sample.tar
		It is used to list or view the files and directories of given tar archive 
		
	g)tar -xvf sample.tar
		It is used to extract the tar archive
	
	h)tar -cvf root_all.tar newfile.txt original-ks.cfg sample sample.tar sample.txt test
		It is used to compress specific files or folder whatever you want  in the format of tar archive.
	
46) change permission
		It is used to change the permissio of directories or files.

	a) chmod ugo=rwx filename
		
	b)chmod ugo=x filename
		
	
	c)chmod -R 421 filename
		

	d)chmod -R 777 filename
		
		
	e)chmod -R 000 filename
		

47) whereis java
		It is used to find or display the path of binary files


48) ps
	The ps command is used to view currently running processes on the system.

	a) ps -A (or) ps -e
		It shows the currently running processess on the system but not in full fomat
		

	b) ps -ef
		It shows the currently running processess on the system in full format.
	

	c) ps -r
		It shows  latest  running processes on the system.


	d) ps -a                                        
	  	It show the running processes which are not associated with terminal.
		

49) awk
	The awk command is used for text processing in Linux

		a) awk '{print}' sample.txt

			It is used to display the content of specific file without using cat command

		b)  awk '/docker/ {print}' sample.txt
			It displays the row of word contain docker.

		c) awk '{print $2}' sample.txt    
			It displays the 2nd  column of the entire file.


50) netstat
	It is used to listing all the listening port of udp and tcp

	a) netstat -plnt

		It is used to list the listening port of tcp

		
	b) netstat -plnu
		It is used to list the listening ports of udp

	c) netstat  -at
		It displays the active tcp connections.
		
	d) netstat -au

		It displays the active udp connections.

	e) netstat -r 
		It shows the current routing tables

	f) netstat -ie
		It shows the inteface.


51)  ip a

	It shows IP address

52) wget https:google.com

	It is used to download using wget.

53) ls -a

	It is used to list the hidden file also.

54) ls -la

	It shows the hidden file with detailed information  like permission,date and time .

55) hostname
	It display the hostname of the system.

56) grep
	grep stands for global search for regular expression and print out

	a) grep -i "MANo" sample.txt
		The -i option enables to search for a string case insensitively in the given file. It matches the words like Mano or mano or MANO.
	

	b) grep -ir "sample.txt"

		It displays the sample.txt presents on the system including file path

lll



